OSAID 1.0

Why we need Open Source Artificial Intelligence (AI)
----------------------------------------------------

Open Source has demonstrated that massive benefits accrue to everyone after
removing the barriers to learning, using, sharing and improving software
systems. These benefits are the result of using licenses that adhere to the
Open Source Definition. For AI, society needs at least the same essential
freedoms of Open Source to enable AI developers, deployers and end users to
enjoy those same benefits: autonomy, transparency, frictionless reuse and
collaborative improvement.

When we refer to a “system,” we are speaking both broadly about a fully
functional structure and its discrete structural elements. To be considered
Open Source, the requirements are the same, whether applied to a system, a
model, weights and parameters, or other structural elements.

An "Open Source AI" is an AI system made available under terms and in a way
that grant the freedoms to:

    Use:
    the system for any purpose and without having to ask for permission.

    Study:
    how the system works and inspect its components.

    Modify:
    the system for any purpose, including to change its output.

    Share:
    the system for others to use with or without modifications, for any
    purpose.

These freedoms apply both to a fully functional system and to discrete elements
of a system. A precondition to exercising these freedoms is to have access to
the preferred form to make modifications to the system.

Preferred form to make modifications to machine-learning systems
----------------------------------------------------------------

The preferred form of making modifications to a machine-learning system must
include all the elements below:

Data Information:
    Sufficiently detailed information about the data used to train the system
    so that a skilled person can build a substantially equivalent system. Data
    Information shall be made available under OSI-approved terms.

In particular, this must include:

1. the complete description of all data used for training, including (if used)
   of unshareable data, disclosing the provenance of the data, its scope and
   characteristics, how the data was obtained and selected, the labeling
   procedures, and data processing and filtering methodologies;

2. a listing of all publicly available training data and where to obtain it;
   and

3. a listing of all training data obtainable from third parties and where to
   obtain it, including for fee.

Code:
    The complete source code used to train and run the system. The Code shall
    represent the full specification of how the data was processed and
    filtered, and how the training was done. Code shall be made available under
    OSI-approved licenses.
    For example, if used, this must include code used for processing and
    filtering data, code used for training including arguments and settings
    used, validation and testing, supporting libraries like tokenizers and
    hyperparameters search code, inference code, and model architecture.

Parameters:
    The model parameters, such as weights or other configuration settings.
    Parameters shall be made available under OSI-approved terms.
    For example, this might include checkpoints from key intermediate stages of
    training as well as the final optimizer state.

The licensing or other terms applied to these elements and to any combination
thereof may contain conditions that require any modified version to be released
under the same terms as the original.

Open Source models and Open Source weights
------------------------------------------

For machine learning systems,

An AI model consists of the model architecture, model parameters (including
weights) and inference code for running the model.

AI weights are the set of learned parameters that overlay the model
architecture to produce an output from a given input.

The preferred form to make modifications to machine learning systems also
applies to these individual components. “Open Source models” and “Open Source
weights” must include the data information and code used to derive those
parameters.

The Open Source AI Definition does not require a specific legal mechanism for
assuring that the model parameters are freely available to all. They may be
free by their nature or a license or other legal instrument may be required to
ensure their freedom. We expect this will become clearer over time, once the
legal system has had more opportunity to address Open Source AI systems.

Definitions
-----------

AI system:
    An AI system is a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit
    objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs
    such as predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions that can
    influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in
    their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment.
    https://legalinstruments.oecd.org/en/instruments/OECD-LEGAL-0449

Machine learning:
    is a set of techniques that allows machines to improve their performance
    and usually generate models in an automated manner through exposure to
    training data, which can help identify patterns and regularities rather
    than through explicit instructions from a human. The process of improving a
    system’s performance using machine learning techniques is known as
    “training”.
    https://doi.org/10.1787/623da898-en
